# ProximaStability

The code in this repository can be used to reproduce the results of Livesey & Barnes (forthcoming). The following instructions take you through

## Hill stability (figures 1 & 2)

First, compile and execute the Hill stability calculator by running

```
gcc -o proxhillstab prox_hill_stab.c -lm
./proxhillstab
```

Then, the figures will be generated by running every cell in `Hill_Stability.ipynb`.

## Stability maps (figures 3–5)

First, the data must be collected by executing `megno-hyak.py`. Please note that these are not computationally inexpensive, especially since a large portion of the simulations will be re-run with a higher-order integrator to limit energy error. This was originally meant for use on the University of Washington's Hyak supercomputer system. Each of the following commands will begin a job will run for 2–3 days on a single CPU.

*Eccentricity dependence.* Running

```
python megno-hyak.py ecc
```

will start 10,000 `REBOUND` simulations varying the eccentricities of both planets (Section 3.2 in the paper).

*Mass dependence.* Running

```
python megno-hyak.py mass
```

will start 10,000 simulations varying the planetary masses (Section 3.3).

*Inclination dependence.* Running

```
python megno-hyak.py inc
```

will start 10,000 simulations varying the planets' orbital inclinations with respect to the fundamental plane of the system (Section 3.4). Once these jobs have completed, there will be three text files containing the relevant data from the 30,000 simulations. Then, running the cells in `Proxima_MEGNO.ipynb` will produce the figures.

## Using `REBOUND`

Any difficulties encountered using `REBOUND` should be addressed by consulting the `REBOUND` [repository](https://github.com/hannorein/rebound) or [documentation](https://rebound.readthedocs.io/en/latest/). Neither author of this paper is involved in the development or maintenance of this excellent $N$-body code.
